## Admonition Against Ebony
_To anyone reading this:_ **Beware the Blade**

It is hoped that the only people having access to this room should be the Jarl of Whiterun and his trusted wizard. If anyone else is reading this, please understand the magnitude of your folly, turn around, and never even speak of this room or this blade to anyone.

It has corrupted and perverted the desires of great men and women. Yet its power is without equal—to kill while your victim smiles at you. Only a daedra most foul could have concocted such a malevolent and twisted weapon. But it appears that all who wield it end up with the crazed eyes of those wild men who roam the hills chattering with rabbits.

It is not to be trifled with. Not even the hottest fires of the Skyforge could melt it; indeed the coals themselves seemed to cool when it was placed within. We cannot destroy it, and we would not have it fall into the hands of our enemies. So we keep it, hidden, dark and deep within Dragonsreach, never to be used.

Woe be to any who choose to take it. 

### Notes on Yngol Barrow
What a peculiar place the barrow turned out to be. I hadn't explored for very long before reaching this elaborate room and gate locking me from going further into the crypt.

I confess it - I'm relieved! This place puts the fear of Oblivion into me. There are some carvings in this room. I'll attempt to transcribe them for the College so I have something to show for this effort.

```
All was so in Atmora
land of truth and our home
man in his throne,
so should he be
Whale in the sea
so should he be
Eagle in Sun's Sky
so should he be
Snake in the weed
so should he be

Sorrow! For the Sea-Ghosts took Yngol
Prize Brother of Sail from Atmora's Fleet
And none on land
nor sky, nor sea
would ever again
be as should be
```
Fascinating, these ancient Nords. I wonder what other secrets are hidden here? Surely there can't be any harm in trying to go a little further, and there is a lever here which must open the gate beyond. 
